In the last section, we took a first stab at our Docker file to build out this Node.js project, but
we very quickly saw that during the run NPM install step, we got an error message that said NPM not
found.
We're seeing this error message because during step number two right here where we try to execute the
command NPM install inside of a temporary container, there is no copy of NPM available.
We're seeing this because we are using Alpine as our base image.
Remember, we had said that we select our base image based upon the collection of default programs that
we need to successfully build our image by default.
Alpine is a very small image.
It's only about five megabytes large, and so it has a rather limited set of default programs and included
inside of it.
In fact, I kind of like this diagram right here.
What programs are included in the Alpine image?
Well, this is supposed to be a tumbleweed of sorts, not much.
So there's not a whole lot of stuff going on.
By default.
Inside the Alpine image, you get a couple of very default Linux or Unix programs.
You get that package manager that we use just a little bit ago, but that's pretty much it.
You don't get a lot of other stuff for free.
So when you are using the Alpine image and you expect to run some fancy web application depending upon
Node.js or depending upon Ruby or Java, chances are you are going to have to do some additional fixes
or some additional setup to get this thing working.
Now, to solve this issue, to solve the issue of NPM not being available inside of our base image,
we have two options.
The first option is to find a different base image.
We can try to find a base image that already has Node and NPM pre installed inside of it.
Alternatively, we can continue using the Alpine image and run an additional command like right here
to attempt to install Node.js and NPM inside of our image.
So two approaches we can either essentially use someone else's work or we can try to build up our own
image from scratch.
In our case, we're going to try using someone else's image.
We're going to find an image that has already been configured to have npm preinstalled inside of it.
So to get started, I'm going to flip back over to my terminal and we're going to navigate to Docker
Hub, which you'll recall is a repository of public images that we can easily pull into our build process.
So I'm going to open up a new tab and navigate to hub dot docker dot com.
And then on the top bar, I'm going to find the explore button.
You'll see a listing of very popular images immediately appear.
And so, of course, right there is Alpine.
We're going to scroll down a little bit and I'll few options down.
You'll see node listed right here.
If you don't see Node listed on here, you can always do a search up here at the top left hand side.
And we're essentially just looking for the repository called Node and it should have a little sub description
of official.
So we can click on this.
We'll get a short description right here.
Now, the description in this case is not super helpful.
It says, Oh, yeah, no, here's what it is, but what are we really downloading?
Like, what is this repository?
This repository is a Docker image that has Node preinstalled on it.
So if we want to, we can attempt to build our image based upon this node one.
And this node image already has node preinstalled or he has npm preinstalled.
And so we don't have to worry about getting more errors like this where NPM is not found.
Now before we just go and use Node willy nilly, I want to show you a little bit more inside this description.
So you'll see this full description panel right here.
And then first section here is supported tags and respective Docker file links.
So this is a listing of all the different versions of this image that is available.
You can get different versions of Node.js encapsulated in each of these different tags.
So for example, if I have a application that requires Node version 6.14, I can find the tag version
6.14 right here.
And then inside of my Docker file, when I specify my base image, I can say node and I can specify
the version of it specifically by adding on 6.14.
So this will give me a image that contains a pre installed version of Node.js, specifically version
6.14 of Node.js.
Now in our case, we don't want version 6.14.
Instead, I want you to scroll around just a little bit and you'll eventually see one tag in here called
Alpine.
You might have to do a command f search for Alpine and you'll see that.
Well, yeah, there's a lot of examples on it on here.
So here's Alpine right here.
I want you to remember this is a tag.
So this is not the name of the repository.
So when you see Alpine right here, it doesn't mean that we're supposed to use like Alpine, like we
were just before.
The first word right here is the name of the repository.
You place a colon, and then you put down a tag name.
And so in this case, when you see Alpine right here, it means that we can optionally select node,
colon, alpine.
So now you might be curious, why would we do this?
Like, what is the purpose of Alpine being tied onto Node?
Well, Alpine is a term in the Docker world for an image that is as small and compact as possible.
Many popular repositories are going to offer Alpine versions of their image in an alpine version of
Node in particular means that you're not going to get a bunch of additional preinstalled programs.
So the default node installation might include extra programs like, say, Get or a package manager
or, I don't know, some fancy text editing tools inside that image.
When you get the Alpine version of an image, it means you're getting the absolute most stripped down
version of that image possible.
So it's going to essentially have no edges and pretty much nothing else.
It will have some very basic programs like, say, the PIN Command.
Maybe you have to look at the actual image to figure that out, but it might have the pin command you'll
have say cat, maybe a simple text editor ls simple programs like that.
But in general, you're getting a very stripped down version of that image.
So for us, the Alpine version works just fine because essentially all you and I need is Node and PM.
An MPLM is included in this node image right here and we need absolutely nothing else.
So we are totally fine using the alpine version of the node image.
All right.
So with all that in mind, now that we've made the change to the from right here, we now have specified
a base image that hopefully is going to include AMPM inside of it.
And I can tell you it definitely is.
This is going to have AMPM Pre-installed.
We're definitely good to go.
So let's now try to rebuild our image with this change and see if that error message goes away.
First things first.
Do make sure that you save the Docker file.
And then once you save it, well, full pack over to the terminal and do a Docker build dot again.
All right.
So now you can see that we're downloading the new node alpine image.
We then get down to step number two right here where we run NPM install.
But very shortly after that, we get a series of error messages and the first of which says no such
file or directory package JSON.
So the package JSON is a file that exists inside of our current working directory, but it looks like
the container is complaining that, hey, I don't have this file available.
Like where's the package JSON file?
I need this to know which dependencies I need to install.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to start to investigate why we're seeing this error message.